We imported our data from Power BI Desktop to Power BI service, time to look at the datasets menu
now. So I am still in my workspace and in the empty dashboard,
this yellow indication right here by the way shows you in which menu you actually are at the moment.
However, I don't want to look at that dashboard now, well because it's empty,
I want to start at the dataset right here.
So if you click on the name of the dataset that you want to select, this one, then you can see that this
looks kind of the way we know it from Power BI Desktop, right?
There is one important thing from the beginning, in Power BI service, we have two views,
we have the reading you and the edit view.
Well as you can imagine, at the moment we are in the edit view, so we can work on things and create visualizations
for instance. If we change that from the edit view to the reading view right here,
let me click that, then the menu changes and we cannot create any new visualizations of course because that's
only, well the reading view.
So we will start in the report view,
so let's go back to edit report, right here.
Now what can we see right here?
Let's talk about the menu up here first.
So if we click onto file, we can see that we can save this report or save a copy,
that's fine.
We have the view option,
we know that from the desktop application, this view button, we click that already, let me click right here.
We have the explore option, let me click right there,
you know that, right? When we talked about the visualizations in the report view module,
then we had that with our drill down options and the hierarchies that we enabled,
so we have something like this also in here. We have text boxes, shapes, visual interactions, let's click on that,
doesn't work.
So those are the interactions,
you know it's the same thing that's called edit interactions in the Power BI desktop application.
We have refresh,
we will learn how this works
in this module. We can duplicate this page,
we can save it
and here, we have the analyse in Excel option which we won't use right now.
So this is the basic menu in the edit view.
Well and as we are in the edit view, let's maybe try what we can do right here.
Let's maybe create a pie chart, like
this, so this seems to work the same way we are used to it from Power BI desktop.
So we put the visualization right here, open the FACT-Population table for instance
and again use the population as a value and maybe the region in the DIM-Region table, right there for the
details,
like this.
So we now created one visualization,
let's create a second one.
So let's take a bar chart
maybe, let me unselect that first. Let's take the bar chart, put it right here
and also increased the size a little bit
and again, take that population as our most favorite value right here and now take the age group by category
as a legend, like this.
Not our most beautiful visualization but I think it's fine like that.
So what did we do right now? We now created new visualizations.
Well let's now change to report view and see what we can do.
So if I click right here now, then Power BI asks me if I want to save the changes to this report.
Well let's click save then, see what happens and let's call that test report, like this and press save. OK
and where can we find that report now? Right here.
So this is interesting, right?
Power BI imports the dataset and the report
but you can also create new reports in the edit view
in the dataset section right here
and then you have two reports.
One was created in Power BI,
the other one was created in the Power BI service application.
Let's go back to the dataset then and now this dataset is gone,
so this means this menu simply allows us to create new reports. As soon as we save the report, this menu
is empty again, so we can create new data
and if we want to edit our existing reports, so the ones we created before for instance, then we have to
go to the report section right here.
So this is it.
This is what we can do right here,
so let's then talk about the report view and also about the reading view in the report
view of course in the next video.